Macrosegregation is key defect in industrial casting processes. During solidification, solute redistribution at the scale of microstructure, also known as microsegregation, take place with complex interactions, in order to form one or more solid phases. These interactions between microsegregation and movements of liquid and solid phases may lead to macrosegregations. These solute heterogeneities spanning on a larger scale, may result in a bad casting quality. In this thesis, we propose a numerical model to simulate and predict macrosegregations occurring in the centre of multicomponent alloys, caused by thermal and solutal variations in the liquid phase. First, we assume that the metallic alloy solidifies with a constant volume. In this context, we study the influence of thermosolutal convection on the formation of channel segregations, at different modelling scales. The second part of this modelling work consider solidification while the metallic alloy's volume is decreasing, mainly due to overall density variation, also known as solidification shrinkage, possibly leading to the so-called inverse segregation phenomenon, appearing on the alloy's skin. In the context of solidification shrinkage, the shape of the metal's boundary with surrounding gases varies according to a constantly changing solidification path due to macrosegregation. The level set method is therefore used to track its evolution with time. Composition predictions, coupled with thermodynamic database mappings for more accurate multicomponent solidification paths, are analysed and compared to existing experimental setups. Finally, simulations of a reduced-gravity solidification cases are performed, mocking an experimental benchmark from the CCEMLCC project launched by the European Space Agency. The results after complete solidification show acceptable agreement for the final shape, compared to experimental results. These computations were performed with binary, ternary and quaternary approximations of the same steel grade which was used in reduced-gravity experiments.